
Certificate Authorities


A certificate authority (CA) is a third-party organization with 3 main objectives:


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


1. Issuing certificates.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


2. Confirming the identity of the certificate owner.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


3. Providing proof that the certificate is valid.


You might have heard of Symantec, Comodo, or Let's Encrypt, among others.


Becoming a CA is an intense task of security requirements and audits.


R O O T S T O R E


You need to be trusted to be accepted into a root store.


Let's


Sym


Digi


GoD


Com


A root store is basically a database of trusted CAs.


R O O T S T O R E


Apple, Windows, and Mozilla run their own root stores that they pre-install in your computer or device.


Which certificate should you buy? You have basically 3 flavors.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


Domain validated. The certificate just verifies the domain name, and nothing else. You probably need this one.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


From DNSimple


Organization validated. The certificate requires the validation and manual verification of the organization behind the certificate.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


dnsimple.com:


They


are fans of avocado


toast and any ice-cream


ﬂavor


Some of them think that


Italy should have been


in the 2018 soccer world


cup.


Extended validation. The certificate requires an exhaustive verification of the business.


Certiﬁcat, Inc (US)


https://howhttps.works


All valid certificates result in the browser displaying a secure badge in the browser bar. EV certificates generally display the company name as well.


C


E


R


T


I


F


I


C


A


T


A


P


P


R


O


V


E


D


But how do certificates get validated?


R


C


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


When a CA issues a certificate, they sign the certificate with their root certificate pre-installed in the root store.


R


C


M


C


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


Most of the time it's an intermediate certificate signed with a root certificate.


If a cat-astrophy would occur and the root certificate is compromised, it's easier to revoke the intermediate certificates, since the root certificates are installed on each device.


Let's walk through how a certificate is validated. The process is based on a "chain of trust".


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


Your browser connects to a site via HTTPS and downloads the certificate.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


The certificate is not a root certificate.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


MID


CERT


Your browser downloads the certificate that was used to sign the certificate on the site.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


MID


CERT


But this certificate is still not the root certificate.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


MID


CERT


ROOT


CER


Your browser once more looks up the certificate that signed the intermediate certificate.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


MID


CERT


ROOT


CER


It's the root certificate! Yay!


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


MID


CERT


ROOT


CER


The entire certificate chain is trusted, and thus the site certificate is trusted as well.


In the event that the last certificate is not a root certificate, and there are no more certificates to download, the chain is untrusted.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


But why use a certificate authority when you can self-sign your certificates?


vk7pwbmi+4xSYdNnXO


6qPCXBt27J1L7YBqQG


jzn0zq+CW9qPdlnnOW


qTXPymxtVq+UY


JXtA


/swgXZiTpOduoN1UsO


H/1kfVKV33QjvUCwCzq


+CW9qUnxGEgTL+3...


A self-signed certificate provides the same level of encryption as one generated by an authority.


HE770 - D/_/^^ÿ


No crabs can spy on your data.


$$$


$$$


And there is no charge to self-sign your certificates!


Yes, but almost every browser checks that the certificate is issued by a trusted authority.


https://howhttps.works


Y


is


not


secured


Here be dragons


As such visitors are warned that the certificate cannot be trusted.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


Self-signed certificates can be useful for testing, and intranets, but you should avoid using them on public sites.


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


Self-signed certificates can be forged. Basically, they say "Trust me, it's me, I promise!".


HOW


HTTPS


.WORKS


MID


CERT


ROOT


CER


A trusted certificate says: "Trust me, an authority verified me".


Talking about trust. Thank you for trusting us through this story.


Unfortunately, it is coming to an end.


We hope you enjoyed this comic!


See you soon!

# Hey, you did it!


You finished the comic! Thanks from the bottom of of our cat paws for spending some of your day reading about HTTPS.


We propose three activities to distract you from the fact that there is not another episode to read.


To make it up to you, you can test your brand hot knowledge of HTTPS in a 


The human thing to do. If you want to put more pressure on us to make more comics, here are a few examples to get us to the edge of our seats.


I want my new comic right meow 😸 @dnsimple! #certificat https://howhttps.works


Don't cat corners! ✂ 🐈 but make more comics @dnsimple #certificat https://howhttps.works


I have a good feline about this upcoming comic @dnsimple 😻 #certificat https://howhttps.works


Bad crab. Bad @dnsimple. 🦀 Make more comics! #crab https://howhttps.works


 If you enjoyed the comic, and need an SSL certificate to secure your site, or a rock solid and easy-to-use DNS (not our words), or a brand new fancy domain, have a look at us.


P.S. If you want to suggest a new episode (please no, because we'll have to update this page) or give us feedback about the existing ones, 
